>> Jon: Okay, here we are.
So Visible Focus.
So
this is another thing that we
were just kinda talking about.
But one of these checklist items,and as we
keep going through the slides we're gonna
tick off these checklist items.
But it needs to be be visually apparent
which page element has the current
keyboard focus, i.e as you tab through
the page, you can see where you are.
So if you go to a lot of the big websites,
and you start tabbing through.
You'll notice,
maybe even that you haven't noticed
before that every single interactive item
has some kind of visual focus state to it.
A Twitter or a Facebook status or
a profile picture things like that.
And yeah, like we were mentioning it
is kind of this common anti pattern
to remove that focus state,
so don't do that.
>> Speaker 2: A request from
the chatroom Michael J says for newbies,
please explain the caveat on OS X
regarding enabling press tab highlight
each item on a website, webpage.
>> Jon: OS X regarding enabling press.
[CROSSTALK]
>> Speaker 2: Let me
highlight that for you.
>> Jon: I see it, I'm just not sure.
I'm not sure what that means.
[CROSSTALK]
>> Speaker 3: I believe what he's
referring to is with, when you,
say you do a fresh install of OS X.
And I believe it's in preferences,
that you actually have
to go back in and
specifically say that non focusable items.
I can't remember the terminology,
but it's not on by default.
You actually have to go in and modify some
preferences, I'll have to look it up here.
>> Jon: We'll follow up on that
during one of the exercise breaks.
We'll find a blog post or something
detailing that and put it in chat.
cool, thanks for that comment.
And so here is an example of visual focus
so you can look back at a website and
you can tell that you are on
the email field filling something.
We mention a little bit before,
talking about CSS resets and frameworks,
things like that.
They can be a little bit dangerous doing
things like removing the focus state.
But I also wanted to give a big
shout out to specifically bootstrap,
which I think made accessibility
a lot more mainstream.
Just by making it a priority,
kinda from the get go.
So if you use Bootstrap like these are in
some Bootstrap theme you get a ton of
really, really good stuff for free.
On the other hand they also,
it's like kinda the battle with design is,
everybody wants to kinda change things.
Like I think the focus date isn't often
removed because people don't want it.
It's because they want
it changed a little bit.
So they want it to be like a gray
glow it's opposed to blue glow,
things like that.
And we often see this
like accessibility trap,
these are often like trying to reengineer
elements like make your own check box.
Or make your own button or make your
own focus thing, things like that.
So I think, I guess the take away there
is that if you are gonna to embark
on a journey like that.
That's like one area where accessibility
really needs to be a shipping requirement,
you know things like that.
Because that's like one big area where
we can totally break websites just
by trying to make them
look a little different.